Create FireHydrant incident from Port (#2121)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/create-firehydrant-incident.md

import GithubDedicatedRepoHint from '/docs/guides/templates/github/_github_dedicated_workflows_repository_hint.mdx'
import ExistingSecretsCallout from '/docs/guides/templates/secrets/_existing_secrets_callout.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Create a FireHydrant Incident

## Overview
This guide will help you implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to create FireHydrant incidents directly from Port.
This functionality streamlines incident management by enabling users to create incidents without leaving Port.

You can implement this action in two ways:
1. **GitHub workflow**: A more flexible approach that allows for complex workflows and custom logic, suitable for teams that want to maintain their automation in Git.
2. **Synced webhooks**: A simpler approach that directly interacts with FireHydrant's API through Port, ideal for quick implementation and minimal setup.

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- Access to your FireHydrant organization with permissions to manage incidents.

> - Optional - Install Port's FireHydrant integration [learn more](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/incident-management/firehydrant)
> 
> 	:::tip FireHydrant Integration
> 	This step is not required for this example, but it will create all the blueprint boilerplate for you, and also ingest and update the catalog in real time with your FireHydrant Incidents.
> 	:::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Optional - Install Port's [FireHydrant integration](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/incident-management/firehydrant).
```

## Set up data model

> If you haven't installed the FireHydrant integration, you'll need to create blueprint for FireHydrant incidents.
> However, we highly recommend you install the FireHydrant integration to have these automatically set up for you.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't installed the FireHydrant integration, you will need to manually create a blueprint for FireHydrant incidents.  
We highly recommend that you install the FireHydrant integration to have such resources automatically set up for you.

```

                    ],
                    "enumColors": {
                        "P1": "red",
                        "P2": "orange",
                        "P3": "blue",
                        "P4": "lightGray"
                    }
                    }
                },
                "required": [],
                "order": [
                    "name",
                    "description"
                ]
                }
            },
            "invocationMethod": {
                "type": "GITHUB",
                "org": "<GITHUB_ORG>",
                "repo": "<GITHUB_REPO>",
                "workflow": "create-firehydrant-incident.yaml",
                "workflowInputs": {
                "{{ spreadValue() }}": "{{ .inputs }}",
                "port_context": {
                    "run_id": "{{ .run.id }}"
                }
                },
                "reportWorkflowStatus": true
            },
            "requiredApproval": false
            }
          ```
          </details>

      5. Click `Save`.

      Now you should see the `Create FireHydrant Incident` action in the self-service page. 🎉

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Let's test it!

> 1. Head to the [self-service page](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) of your portal
> 
> 2. Choose either the GitHub workflow or webhook implementation:
>    - For GitHub workflow: Click on `Create FireHydrant Incident`
>    - For webhook: Click on `Create FireHydrant Incident (Webhook)`
> 
> 3. Enter the required information:
>    - Incident name
>    - Description of the incident   
>    - Priority level (from P1 to P4)
> 
> 5. Click on `Execute`
> 
> 6. Done! Wait for the incident to be created in FireHydrant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Head to the [self-service page](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) of your portal.

2. Choose either the GitHub workflow or webhook implementation:
   - For GitHub workflow: Click on `Create FireHydrant Incident`.
   - For webhook: Click on `Create FireHydrant Incident (Webhook)`.

3. Enter the required information:
   - Incident name.
   - Description of the incident.
   - Priority level (from P1 to P4).

5. Click on `Execute`.

6. Done! Wait for the incident to be created in FireHydrant.
```
